---
layout:     post
title:      "Digital Currencies at a Glance"
categories: technology
---

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

*Cryptocurrencies* are an exciting and confusing topic. There is so much
innovation in that space that it can be hard to keep up to date. The Internet
lacked an overview of the most important digital currencies -- but fear not. On
this page you will find a very brief intro to digital money and a list of the
most important currencies/tokens/coins. For each of those, there is a
single-line description, a one-paragraph summary, and a link to the best website
with more information.

Bitcoin
-------

Bitcoin is the original cryptocurrency.

In 2008, Satoshi Nakamoto invented a protocol that computers could speak to send
virtual money to each other. Every participant can create *Bitcoin addresses*
that can receive and send money. They look like this:
`1H7EyGFCACKfANKWNBzuRmjVqvVsYyXmQv`. Each address has an associated *secret
key* that only the creator of the address knows. The secret key is used to
create a cryptographic signature for the transactions that spend the money on
the address, ensuring that only the owner of the address can spend the money.
All transactions are recorded in a public, immutable ledger called the
*blockchain*. This means that everybody can know whether an address holds money
or not, and so it is impossible to counterfeit or double-spend money. The ideas
behind Bitcoin spawned a lot of interest: as of September 2017, all Bitcoins in
the world are worth about 61 billion USD together, and there are plenty of other
currencies and systems building on blockchain technology.

[More info: Bitcoin FAQ on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/6jlop4/rbitcoin_faq_newcomers_please_read/)

Like what you read? Donate BTC to `1H7EyGFCACKfANKWNBzuRmjVqvVsYyXmQv`


Ethereum
--------

A fully programmable blockchain where anybody can create new currencies,
markets, and contracts.

What if the blockchain could not just record transactions, but store arbitrary
computer programs and their computation results? Vitalik Buterin asked this
question in 2013 and invented Ethereum. In a sense, the Ethereum blockchain
trades a currency, *Ether*, just like the Bitcoin blockchain trades Bitcoin.
However, any user also write programs in a programming language called Solidity,
submit these to the Ethereum blockchain, and use Ether to pay the participating
computers for running these programs. This allows for a number of exciting
applications, from creating one's own currency over predicting flight ticket
prices to crowdfunding a new idea.

[More info: the Ethereum Project](https://ethereum.org/)

Like what you read? Donate ETH to `0xb32aC95038dd3FB8f9FA314CaBFf088fBfDd8591`

Bitcoin cash
------------

In 2017, people couldn't agree on the value of a technical parameter in the
Bitcoin protocol, so some created a "copy" of Bitcoin called Bitcoin Cash.

The origin of Bitcoin Cash lies in the popularity of Bitcoin, which led to a
high number of transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain. These transactions
caused large waiting times and a rise in transaction fees. As of September 2017,
users have to pay about 1 USD (in Bitcoin) for a transaction. Otherwise, the
computers running the blockchain would treat the transaction as low-priority,
because they have too much other work to do. Among the proposed solutions was a
proposal to increase the size of a transaction bundle, a so-called "blockchain
block", from 1â€‰MB to 8 MB. Not all Bitcoin participants agreed on this, and so
those who did agree "forked" their variant of Bitcoin and called it Bitcoin
Cash. Anyone who owned Bitcoin as of August 1, 2017 automatically owned the same
amount of Bitcoin Cash. It wasn't worth much at that time, but the price of
Bitcoin Cash has since risen to about 0.1 Bitcoin.

[More info: the original Bitcoin Cash proposal](https://bitco.in/forum/threads/buip055-passed-increase-the-block-size-limit-at-a-fixed-block-height.2103/)

Like what you read? Donate BCH to `TODO`
